## Parallel Taping in Adjoint Algorithmic Differentiation

## Description

This software was created as part of a Bachelor Thesis at the [RWTH Aachen
University](https://www.stce.rwth-aachen.de/).

The goal is to provide a reference implementation for testing and analysis
of proposed parallel adjoint taping methods.

This tool is a fully functional Adjoint Algorithmic Differentiation (AAD) tool. That said, it is not 
designed to be the fastest
AAD tool, as such be careful when using and building on top of it.

## Installation

Clone the project and use cmake
```shell
cd {Project Root}
cmake .
make adjoint
./adjoint
```

## Getting Started

See the [User Guide](USER_GUIDE.md) for documentation and a quick start.

If you want to contribute or embed this program in your own we recommend 
looking into the [Developer Guide](DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md).

## Features

- Adjoint calculation
- Tools for analyzing performance
- Two methods of parallel checkpoint generation
- Mathematical verification of results
- Profiler
- Checkpointing
- A set of predefined double operators

## Documentation

The Software uses [Doxygen](https://doxygen.nl/). Docs can be generated by running the following commands
```shell
cd doc
doxygen ./Doxyfile.in
```

This generates a detailed overview of the classes
and descriptions of methods, but it is also helpful to look into the source code.
Especially the primal/primal.hpp file, as a lot of control parameters can be 
defined there.

## Testing
The Software uses the [Google Test framework](https://github.com/google/googletest).
To run the tests build the adjoint_test executable:

```shell
make adjoint_test
./adjoint_test

or

ctest adjoint_test
```

There may be problems compiling the tests when using gcc or icpc.
We have found no issues using clang.

<sub>Note: not all functionality is currently tested.</sub>


Happy differentiating!